---
layout: post
title:  "The first 90 days"
date:   2025-07-16 11:59:00 -04:00
categories: business
published: false
---

There are two pieces of advice that stuck with me over the course of my career:

1. **Figure out how to automate yourself out of a job.**
2. **Apply an established pattern when taking on a new role.**

The first bit may seem counterintuitive, but doing this provides two benefits. One, very few knowledge workers enjoy performing tedious or menial tasks, and these tasks are typically the easiest to automate.
Two, there are two common ways to handle the transition into a new role: either hand off the existing job responsibilities to someone else,
or realize the job is no longer necessary. In the information era, it's often easier to justify spending resources on automation projects than it is to justify additional headcount for an organization. 
Plus, automation usually improves team efficiency; _win, win!_

When applying this tactic in practice, having a reliable egress plan in place when taking on a new role is essential.
A close friend introduced me to a simple pattern everyone should use when starting a new role:
**talk to people!**  

This is so simple, and yet very few people seem to take full advantage of the technique. The framework below demonstrates how to apply this idea, and how to get the most out of it. Most people receive a grace period of about three months when starting out.
After this time, our peers tend to become impatient. This framework is built on that assumption, and the time scales defined may be tailored for each circumstance accordingly.


# Make Connections
As a social species, we are hardwired for connection. As such, the only way for us to succeed individually is to also succeed as a group [#GEEK WAY#].
Developing meaningful relationships and building trust with our peers is a critical step in this process.
Schedule individual conversations with the people you will be working with. Make sure to meet with anyone who will have an influence on your team or project. Avoid setting an agenda, and allow the discussion to unfold naturally. 
The ultimate goal is to get to know your peers. 

Use this process to discover answers to the following questions: _what motivates each person? What do they care about? What's their favorite part of the job?
How do they think you might fit into the organization? What would they like to see from you?
What aspects of their work experience could be improved?_

The end result of these trust-building exercises will help you create an environment where people will approach you if
they have a problem. They will tell you in advance when something isn't working, or even when they have a new idea to try!


# Allocate Time
Dedicate time to prepare for the new role. Attempting to consume the wide-open firehose of new information is a universal
experience all knowledge workers must navigate as they onboard into a new role. Adopting a proactive approach by having
answers to a few questions ahead of time will yield exceptional results!

Ask these questions as you prepare for your new role: _How will I capture actions and requests so I don't lose them? 
How will I remember to follow-up on items in an appropriate timely manner?
How will I decide whether to commit to something early on?
What boundaries will I need to set early to ensure my success?
Who do I need to speak with first?
Who makes decisions for the team?
Who will I need to learn from in order to be successful in this role?_

As you figure out who you will need to speak with, remember to focus on anyone who is responsible for making decisions 
that will impact or influence you and your team. 
Prioritize meeting with your entire immediate team and direct reports within the first week. 
For large teams, make sure to meet with everyone individually within the first two weeks.
Establishing a clear path before starting the new role will help with managing the inevitable chaos that ensues in the immediate months after joining a new team.


# The first 90 days
You've prepared; you're ready to take on anything!

The 90-day framework will help you execute your mission as you navigate the concerning white waters ahead.
The dartboard approach provides a method for prioritizing where to spend effort during this critical time window.
Draw three concentric circles with increasing sizes. The center "bull's eye" represents you and your team.
The next circle represents your direct influences: contacts, peers, and advocates who's actions make a direct impact on you and your team. The outer circle represents your indirect influences: the people who's actions cause indirect effects on you. See Figures 1a and 1b as a demonstration of this concept.
Furthermore, Table 1 demonstrates how this framework might be used in practice.

This approach will expand your network quickly with exponential growth. Make sure you have a rigorous process in place to handle the flood of new information!

<br/>

Date | Timeframe | Interactions | Actions
:--: | --- | --- | ---
 TBD | Day 0 | Team introductions | Announcement of new role
     | Days 1-14 <br/> (1st two weeks) | Meet separately with:<br/> • all **direct reports**, and <br/> • immediate **team members** <br/>(i.e. form a new team) | Learn who to speak with next.
     | Days 1-30 <br/> (1st month) | Meet with **direct peers** and **project leaders** | Begin to understand the aspects of the **role**.
     | Days 30-60 <br/> (1st two months) | • Meet with **project stakeholders** <br/> • Build a network of contacts and relationships with **related departments** and technical leaders. | Begin to understand the needs of the **team**.
     | Days 60-90 <br/> (1st three months)| • Continue **building a network** of contacts and relationships with related departments and technical leaders <br/> • Meet with indirect influences | • Begin to understand the **established processes** and work streams. <br/> • Accept additional responsibilities as the scope of work becomes clear. <br/> • Contribute to the **team objectives.**
     | Day 90 | ONBOARDING COMPLETE! | Demonstrate competency in your new role, and reflect on how far you've come!

<br/>

---
<br/>
**Works cited**  
[The Geek Way]  
[HBR New Role]  

<span class="author">_written by: R. Taggart, G. Lotko_</span>
<head>
<style>
    .author {
        color: #6f6f6f;
    }
</style>
</head>